Intro (#51)
infinum/eightshift-docs: website/docs/basics/the-structure.md

---
id: the-structure
title: The Structure
sidebar_label: The Structure
---

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-eigthshift--libs-blue?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&labelColor=2a2a2a)](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs)

If you followed the chapters this far and set your first project with all classes from the `wp boilerplate init_theme` command, you saw that you have an `src` folder in the root of your project.

In that root folder, you have a bunch of folders with classes. We like to structure our projects by features, so for example, all `custom post type` registrations will be located in the `CustomPostType` folder.

> Using the [WP-CLI](wp-cli) commands, you follow our folder structure so that all of your projects will have the same layout. This helps us when a new developer comes to the project, and he or she can know where things are from the start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the [WP-CLI](wp-cli) commands, you follow our folder structure so that all of your projects will have the same layout. This helps us when a new developer comes to the project, and they can know where things are from the start.
```

> Here is a small tip from us: **"Organise your projects by functionality"**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a small tip from us: **"Organize your projects by functionality"**.
```

## The structure

> As we already mentioned, try to be consistent and organized with your project, so here is our structure list, and we will explain to you why we use all of those files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we already mentioned, try to be consistent and organized with your project. Here is the structure list generated by the libs. We will explain to you why and how we use all of these files:
```

- src
	- Blocks
		- assets
		- components
		- custom
		- variations
		- wrapper
	- Config
	- CustomMeta
	- CustomPostType
	- CustomTaxonomy
	- Enqueue
		- Admin
		- Blocks
		- Theme
	- I18n
	- Login
	- Main
	- Manifest
	- Media
	- ModifyAdminAppearance
	- Rest
		- Field
		- Routes
	- ThemeOptions
	- View
- .storybook
- .gitignore
- .eslintignore
- .eslintrc
- .stylelintrc
- babel.config.js
- composer.json
- composer.lock
- package-lock.json
- package.json
- phpcs.xml.dist
- postcss.config.js
- README.md
- webpack.config.js

### Blocks

> Blocks are used as the name implies for Block Editor, and you can read about blocks in more detail in [Blocks chapter](blocks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blocks are used, as the name implies, for Block Editor. You can read about blocks in more detail in [Blocks chapter](blocks).
```

### Config

> This class is used to define all the essential methods for your project like `project name`, `project version`, `rest routes namespace`, and much more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class is used to define all the configuration methods for your project like `project name`, `project version`, `rest routes namespace`, and much more.
```

> You can define your project's needs in this class as a static method that you can quickly call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define your project's needs in this class as a static method that you can quickly use.
```

### CustomMeta

This class contains all the custom meta hooks for your project.

### CustomPostType

This class contains all the custom post type hooks for your project. We created a preset for you, so this class looks the same on all the projects.

### CustomTaxonomy

This class contains all the custom taxonomy hooks for your project. Like custom post type, we created a preset for you, so this class looks the same on all the projects.

### Enqueue

These classes will handle JavaScript and CSS files for your project, depending on the location you want to use it:
- **Admin** - Used in the admin (not block editor) part of your project. You can find the files inside the `assets` folder with the `-admin` suffix.

> - **Blocks** - Used in the block editor part of your project. You can find the files inside the `src/Blocks/assets` folder. As blocks are complicated, we have files loaded only in the admin-editor part of the project, those files have an `-editor` suffix. The rest of the files with no suffix loads on the admin-editor part and the project's front end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Blocks** - Used in the block editor part of your project. You can find the files inside the `src/Blocks/assets` folder. As blocks are complicated, we have files loaded only in the admin-editor part of the project, those files have an `-editor` suffix. The rest of the files with no suffix load on the admin-editor part and the project's front end.
```

- **Theme** - Used in the theme (frontend) part of your project. You can find the files inside the `assets` folder with no suffix. You would use these files for stuff related to your project that is not associated with components and blocks. (To be honest, we barely use these files.)

The usage of any of these classes is optional, and you can use only what you need. Eightshift Boilerplate `init_theme` command comes with all three classes already implemented. Keep in mind that enqueue classes work in combination with the Webpack build of your project.

> We named all our files with `application` in prefix. If you don't like the name, you can change it by providing the project overrides for constants used in the Eightshift-Libs. If you change the file names, you must give changes to the Webpack build process as well. Webpack part you can check in the [Webpack chapter](webpack).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We named all our files with `application` in prefix. If you don't like the name, you can change it by providing the project overrides for constants used in the Eightshift-Libs. If you change the file names, you must make changes to the Webpack build process as well. For modifying the Webpack part you can check in the [Webpack chapter](webpack).
```

### I18n

This class is used to define all hooks related to the languages and translations for your project.

### Login

We use this file to change the logo link on the login page, but you can use it however you seem fit.

### Main

This is the main entry point file for all your classes. It implements DI container and autowiring with the main action that loads everything in your project inside the WordPress ecosystem. You can provide manual service classes here as well. We covered this in the [autowiring chapter](autowiring).

### Manifest

> This class provides manifest.json file location and helpers to return the full path for a specific asset. We will cover this in more detail in the [manifest chapter](manifest).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class provides `manifest.json` file location and helpers to return the full path for a specific asset. We will cover this in more detail in the [manifest chapter](manifest).
```
